One of the most precious gifts we enjoy as humans is the gift of sight.
Sight is possible because of the way our eyes and our brain work together.
The complexity of our eyes and their connectivity with our brain gives strong evidence of a very
wise designer.
And that designer is clearly identified for us in the Bible.
Please open your Bibles to the Book of Psalms, and we're going to look at Psalm 94 verse
9.
It reads this way,
The one who made the ear, can he not hear?
The one who formed the eye, can he not see?
So Jehovah created the eye and our ability to see, and we're very grateful for that.
But he didn't make it just though that we see in one color just so that we can move around
and work and function safely and efficiently.
He gave us the ability to see a wide variety of colors that enrich our lives.
We very much appreciate the brilliant colors of butterflies, birds, fishes, and flowers.
What is your favorite color?
Is it red, blue, green?
Oh, you may say you've only given me three choices.
That's true.
How many color possibilities are there that we can see?
And how do our eyes and our brain work together to produce this variety of colors?
And what role does light play in this process?
These questions will be answered in the following video,
and please take note how all of this wonderful design by Jehovah reassures us
that our Creator wants us to rejoice.
What is color?
It's how we perceive wavelengths of light.
Objects that reflect all the wavelengths of visible light appear white.
When an object reflects only some wavelengths, we see color.
Cells in our eye detect light and send signals to our brain.
We have three kinds of color sensing cells.
Those that detect red, green, and blue.
How do we perceive other colors?
Mixing red, green, and blue light changes the color we see.
This flower is yellow because it reflects red and green light into our eye.
With just three kinds of color receptors, we can distinguish some 10 million colors.
Color triggers our emotions.
Blue and green can calm us.
Red and orange can excite.
In the Bible, descriptions that include color help us learn.
Is there any doubt that God gave us the gift of color for our joy?
I put my rainbow in the cloud,
and it will serve as a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.
How grateful we are that Jehovah gave us this ability to see a variety of colors.
And color has an impact on our emotions.
For example, the color red.
It's a very high visible color, and it's filled with energy.
Sometimes it's associated with danger.
And red, it said, can actually make us breathe faster and even raise our blood pressure.
But on the other hand, green is a very calming color.
It's very tranquil.
And that's why when we look at a beautiful green garden or beautiful hillside,
why we feel very relaxed.
Besides affecting our emotions,
Jehovah has used color in the scriptures to teach us Bible truths
and to help us remember them.
To illustrate, what do you think of when I mentioned the following?
A white horse, a red horse, a black horse, a pale horse.
Well, right away your minds went to the book of Revelation, didn't they?
And you understand what these four horses picture.
The white horse pictures Jesus Christ as the enthroned king riding in righteous warfare.
The red horse picturing the bloody warfare among the nations in these last days.
The black horse, Stark famine, and the pale horse, we're quite familiar with these days, aren't we?
Pale horse pictures dreaded disease at pandemics leading to death.
So we see how Jehovah used color to teach us Bible truths and to help us remember them.
There's another way that Jehovah has used scriptures and color to teach us about him.
An example of this is an Ezekiel chapter 1 verses 26 through 28,
where Jehovah gives Ezekiel a beautiful, brilliant view of his throne.
And among all this glory, there is a beautiful rainbow.
And what does a rainbow picture?
The rainbow denotes peacefulness, calmness, tranquility, indicating what?
That with all of his dynamic energy, Jehovah is a calm, peaceful God.
And that's very reassuring to us, and we are endeared to him.
Now, earlier, we talked about the association of light with color.
And in the scriptures, Jehovah uses light to depict something about how he increases our understanding of Bible truths.
At Proverbs 418, the Bible says,
But the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight.
Now, this applies spiritually, but we can understand it literally, can't we?
If you're taking an early morning walk in a countryside and the sun has not come up yet,
you could see things, but you're not quite sure what you see.
It props you don't even know what color they are.
But when the sun comes up, well, you see clearly what you were looking at.
A beautiful white fence, a green pasture, and a big, stately red barn in the distance.
And now, your appreciation for your walk has been enhanced.
Well, likewise, the Bible tells us at Sec. Corinthians 4.6,
Let the light shine out of darkness, and he has shown on our hearts to illuminate them with the glorious knowledge of God.
Jehovah provides his servants with spiritual lightenment, and that helps us to understand and deeply appreciate Bible truths even more.
And as a result, we understand them, we're motivated to apply them, and it draws us closer to our Heavenly Father.
Well, how thankful we are that Jehovah created us with the ability to see color.
It enriches our lives, touches our emotions,
helps us to learn and remember Bible truths, helps us to understand our Heavenly Father better,
and the light that He provides gives us a progressive improvement in our Bible understanding.
How thankful we are for the gift that Jehovah has given us to see color.
It is a strong evidence that He really wants us to enjoy life to the full.
And now, let's give our attention to Brother Robert Lucioni, who will now present the next talk of this symposium.
Creation proves that Jehovah wants us to rejoice our well-designed bodies.